The 95th annual Academy Awards are underway, and celebrity style watchers have their eagle eyes trained on the champagne carpet. The world’s biggest stars have gathered to celebrate the year’s most prestigious award ceremony — and we’re here to get a peek at the season’s most glamorous fashion trends, from splashy, electric colors to feathers, sequins and dramatic cutouts and much more. The glamour is simply oozing from every inch of our television screens. And while these fabulous Oscar couture looks may not seem very accessible to plebians like ourselves, they can serve as a great jumping-off point or when trying to find inspiration for any festive even that might be on the horizon, from a wedding to a cocktail party or a girl’s night out. Below, we’ve rounded up a few wearable looks inspired by some of the night’s most popular style trends, and found options at a variety of budgets, starting at under $100. Take a look to see if you spot some of your faves and pick up a gown or two for yourself. HuffPost receives a share from retailers on this page. Every item is independently selected by the HuffPost Shopping team. Prices and availability are subject to change. Fluorescent Citron Hues If there’s one color that dominated the carpet this year, it’s the fluorescent citron hue worn by the likes of the beautiful Winnie Harlow, Drew Afualo and winner Ruth Carter. It’s surprisingly elegant and wearable, whether you rock a jaw-dropping gown or want to slip it into your everyday attire. Sneak it into your style repertoire and get ready to wow the crowd. Audrey Hepburn-core Elegant, timeless looks seemingly inspired by the iconic Audrey Hepburn were all over the red carpet. Glamorous beauties like Vanessa Hudgens, Sofia Carson, Danai Gurira, Zuri Hall, Jennifer Connelly and more stunned in perpetually chic gowns that will never go out of style. Sequined Statuettes Rounding out some of the night’s biggest trends, beauties like winner Jamie Lee Curtis, Malala Yousafzai, Sigourney Weaver and more are mirroring the champagne carpet with glimmering column gowns. Possibly inspired by the Oscar statuette herself, these gowns are simply oozing with old Hollywood charm. Exposed Corseting Sheer corsets and exposed boning reigned supreme this year, with celebs like Halle Bailey, Lady Gaga and Phoebe Waller-Bridge offering up major sophistication with a sultry edge. They are a great example of how one style can be worn in many different ways to fit a wide variety of aesthetics. If you didn’t consider yourself a corset person before, you might just want to think again.