Social media appears to have alighted on the most awkward paragraphs from Prince Harry’s memoir as he explained his attempt to relieve frostbite of the penis. One of the earliest leaks from the book, “Spare,” revealed the Duke of Sussex was suffering from the injury to his nether regions during Prince Willam’s wedding in 2011, following a charity trek to the North Pole. But one proposed remedy seems to have been lost in the tsunami of revelations since. Now the book is available to all, the story has led to people on Twitter to evoke Sigmund Freud and his theories on a child’s feelings towards their opposite-sex parent. Harry himself admits he was left feeling “weird.” His description is worth recounting in full. Harry writes: “My penis was oscillating between extremely sensitive and borderline traumatized. The last place I wanted to be was Frostnipistan.” Harry added a friend recommended a remedy: “She’d urged me to apply Elizabeth Arden cream. “My mum used to use that on her lips. You want me to put that on my todger. “It works, Harry. Trust me. “I found a tube, and the minute I opened it the smell transported me through time. “I felt as if my mother was right there in the room. Then I took a smidge and applied it … down there. ‘Weird’ doesn’t really do the feeling justice.” The section of the audio book – read by Harry himself – was being shared widely on Wednesday. Many listeners couldn’t quite believe their ears. Harry goes on to say he could’t tell anyone about his predicament for fear an aide would leak details of the condition of his “todger” to the press. It’s worth noting “Frostnipistan” seldom appeared in earlier news stories about this account, perhaps because it was mis-translated from the leaked Spanish edition. Spare is one of the fastest-selling non-fiction books ever, according to its publisher Transworld Penguin Random House, with more than 400,000 hardback, e-book, and audio format copies sold on its first day. More revelations from Prince Harry’s “Spare” memoir and media tour: Prince Harry reveals where his relationship with Queen Camilla stands now.The Duke of Sussex denies the royal family was racist for worrying about Archie’s skin colour.The Duke of Sussex claims that William and Kate Middleton encouraged him to wear a Nazi uniform to a “Native and Colonial” party in 2005.Prince Harry had one question for Anderson Cooper amid talk of renouncing royal titles.Prince Harry calls William his “beloved brother and archnemesis” in the book.