Some of your favorite reality stars from Netflix’s best dating shows are getting a “do-over” at love in a new series called “Perfect Match.” On the new reality show, 23 singles from Netflix’s unscripted “Love is Blind,” “Too Hot to Handle,” “Sexy Beasts” and more will mix and mingle in a tropical paradise in hopes of finally riding off into the sunset with their soulmates. “Perfect Match,” which Netflix is touting as “the ultimate dating competition,” releases its first batch of episodes on Valentine’s Day, with more dropping each week through Feb. 28. With the help of host Nick Lachey, who previously co-hosted “Love Is Blind” and “The Ultimatum: Marry Or Move On” with his wife Vanessa, the show is expected to deliver every bit of the anarchy of past Netflix dating shows. The most compatible couples will be rewarded with the chance to play “matchmaker” by controlling the fate of other lovebirds. Some of the perks of gaining “matchmaker” status include the power to break up couples or send them on dates with new singles. “Will they create better matches, or will they create chaos? In this over-the-top journey of strategy and dating hosted by Nick Lachey, only one couple will be crowned the Perfect Match,” reads the Netflix synopsis. The reality stars featured in the show include “Love Is Blind” alums Shayne Jansen, Bartise Bowden and Damian Powers, as well as Zay Wilson from “The Ultimatum,” and “Too Hot to Handle” fan favorites Chase DeMoor, Chloe Veitch and Francesca Farago. Check out the full list of “Perfect Match” cast members below. Abbey Humphreys (“Twentysomethings”) Anne-Sophie Petit-Frere (“Selling Tampa”) Bartise Bowden (“Love Is Blind”) Calvin Crooks (“The Circle”) Chase DeMoor (“Too Hot To Handle”) Chloe Veitch (“Too Hot To Handle,” “The Circle”) Colony Reeves (“Selling Tampa”) Damian Powers (“Love Is Blind”) Diamond Jack (“Love Is Blind”) Dom Gabriel (“The Mole”) Francesca Farago (“Too Hot To Handle”) Georgia Hassarati (“Too Hot To Handle”) Ines Tazi (“The Circle France”) Izzy Fairthorne (“Too Hot To Handle”) Joey Sasso (“The Circle”) Kariselle Snow (“Sexy Beasts”) Lauren “LC” Chamblin (“Love Is Blind”) Mitchell Eason (“The Circle”) Nick Uhlenhuth (“The Circle”) Savannah Palacio (“The Circle”) Shayne Jansen (“Love Is Blind”) Will Richardson (“The Mole”) Zay Wilson (“The Ultimatum”)