The 80th Golden Globe Awards just wrapped, and our favorite celebs didn’t disappoint on tonight’s red carpet. We’ve enjoyed an array of dazzling jewelry, stunning suits and sparkly ensembles as far as the eye can see. (It’s enough to make you forget that the Hollywood Foreign Press has been plagued with allegations of ethics violations and racism and chose not to air the awards ceremony last year.) This year, however, the livestream was back — and there were a few standout red-carpet trends that caught our eye. Sequins burst out of every corner, slinky 90s looks made a comeback in a big way, women sported powerful suits, 80s-inspired sculptural dresses were everywhere and dramatic black dresses adorned with lace and sexy necklines were in plentiful supply. Below, we’ve rounded up a few wearable looks inspired by each of these highly-coveted trends. They’re perfect for your next cocktail party, a night out with friends, weddings and more. Take a look to see if you spot some of your faves and pick up a gown or two for yourself. Sequins Without a doubt, sequins were the most popular trend of the night. Michelle Yeoh, Angela Bassett, Jennifer Coolidge, Abby Elliott, Heidi Klum, Laverne Cox, Margot Robbie and so many more stars were actually glittering on the red carpet. While not exactly an everyday look, having a sequin or two on hand is always a good idea. Sleek 90s vibes Streamlined and elegant, 90s-inspired looks are always a good idea on the red carpet and they’ve made a comeback in a big way. Jenny Slate, Megan Stalter, Anya Taylor Joy, Elizabeth Debicki and more all stunned in simple silhouettes in vibrant hues. This style is incredibly wearable and versatile, perfect for just about every occasion. Gorgeous suits Few things are better than a sharp suit, and tonight’s Golden Globe Awards were full of women and nonbinary folk wearing ultra-stylish, creative and bold suiting. Whether you’re looking for an everyday ensemble for work or want to dazzle at your next big event with a femme-style suit that will stun the masses, let Suzy Amis, Emma D’Arcy and Domee Shi inspire you. 80s-inspired sculptural dresses In an unexpected twist, the red carpet was full of women channeling puffy, ruffle-y 80s-inspired gowns. Michelle Williams, Chloe Flower, Lily James, Michaela Jae Rodriguez, Jenna Ortega and more were repping this ostentatious decade. It’s the perfect reminder to infuse a little fun into your wardrobe. Dramatic black dresses You can never go wrong with a black dress, and the women of this year’s Golden Globes turned out. They added exciting elements like jewels, sequins, lace and unexpected texture to spice them up, making each one more beautiful than the next. Channel the likes of Milly Alcock, Liza Koshy, Jamie Lee Curtis, Natasha Lyonne, Hannah Redmayne and Daisy Edgar Jones and pick one up for yourself.