Donald Trump claimed in a speech to a Mar-a-Lago audience over the weekend that President Joe Biden “convinced” Russian President Vladimir Putin to “go into Ukraine.” Trump, without evidence, said Biden told the Russian leader it would be “no problem” if he took “some parts of Ukraine” in the invasion Russia began in February 2022. Biden actually sought a peaceful solution to Russia’s warmongering and condemned the invasion. It was Trump who called Putin’s invasion “genius” at the time. The Mar-a-Lago event, a mini-campaign speech, reportedly was linked to the Conservative Political Action Conference. Trump also told his audience he invited professors to the White House to explain how horrible a nuclear war would be if it came up in the presidential debates. “The power is so destructive that we won’t talk about it,” he said. Trump claimed the experts urged him: “Sir, do the best you can to not talk about it ... It’s so destructive, it’s so powerful. The world will be gone.” Trump claimed Biden is increasing the risk of a nuclear war because he has “no mind left.” The former president, speaking from a podium, also insisted that a “lunatic” fatally shot Capitol rioter Ashli Babbitt during the Jan. 6 violence in 2021. “There was no reason” for it, said Trump. “We’re not going to let this go on. These are people are horrible, horrible people,” he added, apparently referring to police protecting lawmakers that day. “What they’ve done to protesters ...” Babbitt, a Trump supporter, was shot by a police officer during the insurrection as she was climbing through a smashed window in the Capitol as a violent mob tried to reach lawmakers in their bid to overthrow Trump’s defeat. (See the video below). The Justice Department investigated Babbitt’s shooting and chose not to prosecute the Capitol police officer who shot her. Trump again insisted the rioters were merely “protesting a dishonest election.” There’s no evidence the vote was dishonest. Nearly 1,000 rioters have been charged or convicted in the Jan. 6 riot. The Justice Department continues investigating. Micki Witthoeft, the mother of Ashli Babbitt, was arrested after blocking traffic in a protest on Capitol grounds on Friday, police said. She ignored orders to move and instead “turned around with her hands behind her back and asked to be arrested,” Capitol police said in a statement. Frequent Mar-a-Lago visitor Kari Lake appeared at the event with Trump. She has been baselessly calling herself the “duly elected governor” of Arizona, even though she lost the gubernatorial election to Democrat Katie Hobbs in November. Trump has mostly been hunkered down at Mar-a-Lago, even though he announced in mid-November that he’s running for the presidency again. He’s surrounded by sycophants at his resort, which one Trump confidant recently referred to as a kind of “Barbie Dream House” where Trump can still pretend he’s president.