Ye, the artist formerly known as Kanye West, has seemingly married Yeezy employee Bianca Censori in a small Beverly Hills ceremony Thursday in Los Angeles, reported TMZ. While the pair has yet to file a marriage certificate, they were seen wearing wedding bands on their ring fingers. Censori appears to have worked as an architectural designer for Yeezy since November 2020, as suggested by her LinkedIn profile. The natural brunette, who has dyed her hair blond, previously worked at jewelry and architectural firms in Australia, according to the New York Post. The newfound couple was spotted arriving at the Waldorf Astoria in Beverly Hills on Thursday, but their relationship was already teased by Ye’s “Censori Overload” release in December. In the song, Ye rapped: “The Bible said I can’t have any more sex ’til marriage.” Ye also rapped: “Tweeted death con, now we passed three.” That line referred to the antisemitic tweet that saw him dropped by former partners like Adidas and lose his billionaire status — and likely inspired antisemitic attacks after praising Adolf Hitler in an Alex Jones interview. The initial tweet in October sparked a momentous fall from grace for Ye, who intensified his antisemitic claims in subsequent interviews with Chris Cuomo and Piers Morgan. Ye and his ex-wife, Kim Kardashian, finalized their divorce at the end of November. Kardashian shares four children respectively ranging from 3 to 9 years old with Ye — Psalm, Chicago, Saint and North. The reality TV star told Power 105.1 radio host Angie Martinez in December that she’s tried to shield her kids from their father’s troubling controversies. “If they don’t know the things that are being said or what’s happening in the world, why would I ever bring that energy to them?” Kardashian said. “That’s really grown-up shit that they’re not ready to deal with.” Ye has apparently spent many nights at the Waldorf lately, according to Page Six. Whether he will file an official marriage certificate or currently lives at the hotel — while noticeably staying out of the spotlight after his many troubling interviews — remains to be seen.