President Joe Biden on Monday made an unannounced visit to Kyiv and met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, ahead of the one-year anniversary of Russia’s war against Ukraine this week. Biden was previously scheduled to depart the U.S. for Warsaw, Poland, later Monday. This marks Biden’s first visit to the country since Russia’s invasion on Feb. 24, 2022. “When [Russian President Vladimir] Putin launched his invasion nearly one year ago, he thought Ukraine was weak and the West was divided,” Biden said in a statement released by the White House. “He thought he could outlast us. But he was dead wrong.” Biden added he would announce new sanctions “against elites and companies that are trying to evade or backfill Russia’s war machine.” Biden spoke alongside Zelenskyy at Mariinsky Palace, pledging half a billion dollars of additional assistance to Ukraine, including more military equipment. The president added that while the international community feared Kyiv would not withstand Russia’s attack, Ukrainians have managed to fight on. “One year later, Kyiv stands. And Ukraine stands. Democracy stands,” Biden said. Zelenskyy described Biden’s trip as “the most important visit of the whole history of U.S.-Ukraine relations,” according to the BBC. “Today our negotiations were very fruitful,” Zelenskyy added. The two leaders left Mariinsky Palace together, and then did a walkabout outside the gold-domed St. Michael’s Cathedral. They entered the cathedral for a short time, and when they exited air raid sirens could be heard across the capital. They later laid a wreath at the Wall of Remembrance for the fallen heroes of the war. Zelenskyy shared a photo on his Telegram account, showing him and Biden sharing a handshake. “Your visit is an extremely important sign of support for all Ukrainians,” Zelenskyy wrote. Biden also made a stop at the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv before departing Ukraine’s capital after his roughly five-hour visit. Biden arrived in Kyiv after a train ride from Poland’s border, according to The New York Times. He arrived in Kyiv around 8 a.m. local time, where he was greeted by Ambassador Bridget Brink, before departing for Mariinsky Palace where he was welcomed by Zelenskyy and his wife, Olena Zelenska. Biden’s strong message of unity behind Ukraine comes at a critical time as House Republicans at home, including Speaker Kevin McCarthy (Calif.), have warned the country can’t continue writing a “blank check” to Kyiv, while there is also speculation that Russia is planning a spring offensive. “For all the disagreement we have in our Congress on some issues, there is significant agreement on support for Ukraine,” Biden said. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell on Friday also sought to reassure the international community that there is bipartisan support for Ukraine in Congress during his remarks at the Munich Security Conference. “Reports about the death of Republican support for strong American leadership in the world have been greatly exaggerated,” McConnell said. “My party’s leaders overwhelmingly support a strong, involved America and a robust trans-Atlantic alliance. Don’t look at Twitter, look at people in power.” Biden is due to meet with Polish President Andrzej Duda on Tuesday, and also deliver remarks reiterating U.S. support to Ukraine “for as long as it takes.” The president shared a photo appearing to show what he wrote inside the guest book at Mariinsky Palace. “Kyiv has captured a part of my heart,” Biden wrote on Twitter. Other world leaders have visited Ukraine over the past year, including British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, who made a trip to Kyiv in November.