UPDATE: 12:55 p.m. — President Joe Biden’s personal attorney announced Wednesday that FBI agents found no classified documents at the leader’s Rehoboth, Delaware, home. “The DOJ’s planned search of the President’s Rehoboth residences, conducted in coordination with the President’s attorneys, has concluded. The search was conducted from 8:30 AM to noon. No documents with classified markings were found,” Biden’s attorney Bob Bauer said in a statement. They did take “some materials and handwritten notes that appear related to his time as Vice President,” he added. PREVIOUSLY: FBI agents are conducting a “planned search” of President Joe Biden’s Rehoboth, Delaware, home for classified documents, the president’s lawyer Bob Bauer said Wednesday. “Today, with the President’s full support and cooperation, the DOJ is conducting a planned search of his home in Rehoboth, Delaware,” Bauer said in a statement. Bauer said Biden agreed to follow the Justice Department’s standard policy to not provide “advance public notice” for the search. “The search today is a further step in a thorough and timely DOJ process we will continue to fully support and facilitate,” Bauer said, adding that further updates will be provided once the agents conclude their work at the property. The White House previously said it had found no classified records at Biden’s Rehoboth home, according to NBC News. Biden purchased the home in 2017, according to the local Cape Gazette, when he was no longer vice president. Classified files have been found in Biden’s Wilmington, Delaware, home and a former office in Washington. The FBI in November searched the office at the Penn Biden Center in Washington, according to The Associated Press, at least a week after Biden’s team notified the National Archives that his lawyers had found a small number of classified documents in a locked closet. It’s unclear if more files were uncovered during that search. Agents also searched the president’s Wilmington home earlier this month after his lawyers announced they found six classified pages in Biden’s library. The FBI discovered six additional classified documents dating back to his time in the Senate and the vice presidency. Agents also recovered handwritten notes from Biden’s time as vice president. Attorney General Merrick Garland has appointed Robert Hur as special counsel to investigate Biden’s handling of the files. Biden has told reporters he is fully cooperating with the probe. “I think you’re going to find there’s nothing there,” he said. “There’s no there there.” Former President Donald Trump’s handling of classified files is the subject of a separate special counsel probe. In August, FBI agents searched his Mar-a-Lago property in Florida after Trump failed to comply with a subpoena over missing files. The number of documents found in Trump’s records is far greater than the number discovered in Biden’s. In addition, Trump has refused to cooperate and even suggested that the agents who went into his Florida property planted evidence. Classified files have also been found at the Indiana home of former Vice President Mike Pence, but so far that has not prompted the Justice Department to open a special counsel investigation. “Mistakes were made, and I take full responsibility,” Pence said. Lydia O’Connor contributed reporting.